---
author: fritzvd
categories:
  - botswana
date: 2009-06-13T10:56:14Z
guid: http://blog.fritzvd.com/2009/06/13/botlhale/
id: 56
title: Botlhale
url: /2009/06/13/botlhale/
---

After being here 3 weeks (today is the start of my fourth week in the South), I thought it&#8217;d be good to give another update. This week marks the start of my real &#8216;field&#8217; research. The previous two weeks of staying in Gaborone were weeks of article reading and enhancing (read: writing anew) my proposal.

Actually I was planning to leave for Mopipi on Monday. However, there are always unexpected changes in this world. I&#8217;m sorry to say that I found out yesterday that my interpreter/assistants grandmother has passed away. My sincere condolences to her family.

So a slight change in plans. This week I will still stay in Gaborone to start prepare all the data processing things and to process some satellite imagery.

In my last post I said something about it be so extremely dry here. Well, things have changed. Monday last it started raining like crazy. Most unusual for winter. Moreover because it rained for 4 days. Luckily things have changed again. The sun is shining again and skies are blue. This a big relief, because staying in a house without central heating, can get cold at times.

Apparently some people have been asking about what I&#8217;m up to and what I&#8217;m doing here. To relieve my beloved of these difficult and comprehensive questions there is a brief explanation on the link (above): [research](http://blog.fritzvd.com/research).

>

<pre>Bothlale is Setswana for wisdom</code></pre>
