# Wild Ride

Myrtl and Hog jumped down the chute, with Myrtl crying out in sheer revelry: "*Whoo-hoo*". 
They had been going about this for months on end now and the thrill had not diminished as of yet.
The hustle and bustle of the city combined with the rush of being chased, it was just too good to be true.

After the garbage chute there would be one more challenge before losing in on their home: the bus station. The bus
were always crowded with security folk, on the lookout for *forgotten*. There were always a few that tried to sneak 
into the cargo hatch of the bus, when the bus driver would go around the back. Not that Myrtl and Hog would be so stupid
as that, but the bus station was the best place to trade some goods before going back to *the Pit*, which was what they had
started calling the abandoned coal mine that they had been using as a hideout, or home if you will, for the last few months. 
It was close to being the longest they had been able to stay put in one place.

Hog, looked around the corner seeing "Line 4: Hargraves" turning into the station. He motioned Myrtle, she could use the bus
as it blocked the view for the guards. Just as he turned around to see if Myrtle would spring into action, he felt a rough
hand grabbing his collor. He panicked.
"I've got you now!" One of the guards grumbled. They had anticipated them!
Hog frantically tried to break free, to no avail. He looked around if he could spot Myrtle. She was shadowing the bus, that 
drove into the parking bay for Line 4. As the bus turned, another guard appeared behind the bus, ready to lay his hands on
Myrtle. 
*This can't be happening*.
The guard failed to grab Myrtle, as she darted away, using her small and agile physique to her advantage. She jumped up on
the fender of the bus, and hopped over the guard, grabbing onto the railing of the first floor balcony. 

